h1. KaBOOM!?

h1. About KaBOOM!

* National Non-Profit based in DC
* "A great place to play within walking distance of every child"
* ~ 100 person staff
* Purple and Orange

h1. About KaBOOM!'s engineering department

* Six-person staff
  - Three full-stack engineers
  - Two front-end engineers
  - One product manager
* Our core technologies to date
  - Languages: Ruby, Rails, jQuery
  - Relational DB: MySQL (previously), PostgreSQL (current)
  - Organization/Product Management: Trello
  - Other data stores/caching: Redis, Memcached, Sphinx (Previously)
* Mapping And DIY
* Plenty of clutter/technical debt over the years

h1. You don't believe me?

:code code/wtf.rb[class=code-tiny]

h1. The last few months...

* Recruit new team members
* Release a mobile-browser presentation layer of our mapping product
* Revamp and migrate our entire infrastructure/architecture

h1. Recruit new team members

* Time-consuming
* Exhausting
* You still have the same amount of work left to do
* Plus our domain-specific hurdles of recruiting

h1. Our recruiting process

* Our requirements
  - Everyone on the team must pair with the candidate
  - No one on the team should have valid reservations with the candidate
  - We must lose as little productivity as humanly possible

* We use Trello to manage the entire hiring process

* One 45-minute phone call with me (<= 45 minutes)
* One in-person session
  - We play planning poker (<= 30 minutes)
  - We each spend 30 minutes pairing with the candidate on the selected tasks (== 30 minutes)
  - We jot our comments after we pair (<= 5 minutes)
  - The candidate and I sit down and I get their thoughts on the day and answer any questions they have (<= 30 minutes)
  - Discuss and decide (<= 20 minutes)
